1. RT Lisp Comment Ontology
The commenting style in this file is highly structured, using semicolon counts and indentation to create a clear visual hierarchy.

The Prologue Block: Located at the very top of the document. It uses flush left triple semicolons ;;;. Empty triple semicolons act as vertical spacing to separate paragraphs without breaking the block format.

The Architectural Banner: Used for major file divisions (like Utilities, Configuration, Implementation). It consists of flush left triple semicolons followed by a continuous line of dashes, a title line, and an empty triple semicolon line.

The Scope Header: Used to group related variables or functions within a major section. These are indented two spaces, begin with double semicolons ;;, and are followed by an empty double semicolon line for vertical padding.

The Contract Annotation: These are double semicolon comments indented two spaces, placed directly above a function definition. They specify preconditions, structural expectations, or size checks that must be true before the function is called.

The Trailing Tag: A single semicolon ; placed at the end of a line of executable code, used here to label a specific return state or note a brief detail.

2. Code Structure Attributes

The code structure heavily applies the RT Code Format conventions to a Lisp environment, resulting in a distinct visual footprint.

Global Two Space Offset: Unlike standard Emacs Lisp where top level forms like defun or setq are flush left, the entire configuration and implementation sections are indented by two spaces.

Vertical Branching: The if statements are completely expanded vertically. The operator, the condition, the true branch, and the false branch each occupy their own isolated lines.

Isolated Binding Blocks: In let and let* forms, the variable declaration list is pushed to its own level. The opening and closing parentheses for the binding list often sit alone on separate lines, visually boxing the variables.

RT Typed Identifiers: The naming conventions perfectly map to your specifications for languages that support primary word separators. Hyphens separate conceptually related word groupings (like RT-literal-is-quoted-form), while underscores separated conceptual groups, for example semantic type suffixes (like _pos, _size, or _bool).

Cascading Closures: Closing parentheses are frequently clustered at the end of a block ))), though some control structures drop their final parenthesis onto a new line aligned with the opening form.

-----
;;; TTCA Theory vs. Emacs:
;;;
;;; In TTCA, a tape is an array of cells. A tape has a leftmost cell and a rightmost cell. Hence rightmost_right-neighbor is one cell to the right of rightmost. A tape area is not guaranteed to have a rightmost_right-neighbor, but it will always have a rightmost. The index of the leftmost cell is conventionally 0, the index of the rightmost cell is called the tape's 'extent'.  
;;;
;;; In C programming culture terminology 'length' is a count of cells in an array (a kind of tape). Hence length is 1 plus extent, and can overflow an index register, whereas the 'extent' is an index, and defines the required bit size of an index register.  'size' in C culture programming convention had the meaning of a count of the underlying bytes, unless otherwise noted. When speaking of arrays of bytes, 'extent' is the maximum byte index.
;;;
;;;  In the context of this code, and when discussing counted literals, 'extent' refers to the byte extent.
;;;
;;; We also have a conflict in interpretation of 'position' between Emacs positions and TTCA theory indexes.  A tape (array) has cells, and an index (~ cursor position) indicates a cell.  Leftmost is then the leftmost cell, while rightmost is the rightmost cell.  
;;;
;;; Note: By contract, size checks ensure quotes do not overlap.

del - delete cell under cursor
back space - delete left neighbor cell
typing a letter - insert new left neighbor cell initialized with letter as contents




-----

In general, assume the user can read code, so don't add comments that are merely the code that follows translated to English.

---------------

Draft Description for the Format Guide
Contiguous Form Cluster

When a single logical operation or concept requires multiple distinct Lisp forms to implement (such as a status list, a side-effect message router, and a primary worker function), these forms are grouped directly beneath a single shared comment block with zero intervening blank lines.

Key Characteristics:

Shared Contract: The preceding double-semicolon (;;) comment block acts as the overarching contract, documenting the preconditions and context for all immediately following contiguous forms.

Visual Binding: The absence of vertical whitespace visually binds the separate definitions into a single, cohesive unit. A reader instantly recognizes that these functions and variables are inextricably linked and should be read as a group.

Separation of Concerns without Fragmentation: This technique allows the programmer to maintain strict architectural separation (e.g., isolating I/O side effects from pure mathematical logic) without scattering the related code across the file.

Example:

Code snippet
  ;; By contract: only called when overlay is in quoted form, and null string case already handled
  ;; Everything from content_leftmost to content_rightmost is data, inclusive.
  (setq RT-literal·describe-new-form_status (list 'new-good))
  (defun RT-literal·describe-new-form_message (status)
    nil
    )
  (defun RT-literal·describe-new-form (overlay_leftmost content_rightmost_right-neighbor)
    (let*
      ( ... )
      ...
      ))
"Contiguous Form Cluster" fits well with the existing RT nomenclature (like "Isolated Binding Blocks" and "Cascading Closures").
